website/content/errata.md, before:

---
title: "Errata"
layout: content
---

Sometimes translation errors happen. This page is updated when such errors are fixed.
If you discover some, feel free to message me through Twitter or Discord.

Changes are highlighted in bold.

### 2024-12-22

* B03033 "Kazuha Tomoya"  Wrong turn marker: **~~[During Opponent's Turn]~~ [During Your Turn]**
* B03126 "Cultprit" Wrong Spark/Hirameki effect: **~~Your opponent may not look at the Evidence gained through this Action.~~ Prevent your opponent from gaining Evidence during this Action.**

### 2024-08-28

* B01061 **~~Sera Masumi~~ Masumi Sera**
* B02063 **~~Hideyoshi Haneda~~ Shukichi Haneda**
* B02064 **~~Hideyoshi Haneda~~ Shukichi Haneda**

### 2024-07-23

* D04010 "Jodie Starling" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**
* D04011 "Jodie Starling" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**
* D04012 "James Black" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**
* D04013 "Andre Camel" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**

### 2024-06-19

* The wording "the Turn" is clarified and now says "this Turn", which some cards already did. Affected cards below.
  * D01003 "Conan Edogawa"
  * D01006 "Ran Mori"
  * D01008 "Hiroshi Agasa"
  * D02013 "Shizuka Hattori"
  * D04005 "Masumi Sera"
  * B01007 "Ran Mori"
  * B01012 "Professor Agasa"
  * B01015 "Mitsuhiko Tsuburaya"
  * B01027 "Kazuha Toyama"
  * B01032 "Heiji Hattori"
  * B01068 "Shuichi Akai"
  * B01070 "Andre Camel"
  * B01077 "Shuichi…Akai!?"
  * B01094 "A detective should be a detective"
* B01058 "\*step*" - Effect: During the Turn, the next time your opponent's Evidence is removed, choose up to 1 **Sleeping** Character and Stun it

### 2024-06-10

* B01009 "Shinichi Kudo" - Effect: "If there are a total of 6 **or more** Characters on both players fields"
* D02014 "Amulet" - Effect: "reveal up to 1 **~~Blue~~ Green** Character"
* D05002 "Rei Furuya" - Missing types: Police, Public Security Bureau

Commit message:

fix(translation): clarify dual color case effect

website/content/errata.md, after:

---
title: "Errata"
layout: content
---

Sometimes translation errors happen. This page is updated when such errors are fixed.
If you discover some, feel free to message me through Twitter or Discord.

Changes are highlighted in bold.

### 2025-01-18

* Clarify condition on dual color cases: - **~~When this case is solved~~ When this Case enters Resolution Phase**

### 2024-12-22

* B03033 "Kazuha Tomoya"  Wrong turn marker: **~~[During Opponent's Turn]~~ [During Your Turn]**
* B03126 "Cultprit" Wrong Spark/Hirameki effect: **~~Your opponent may not look at the Evidence gained through this Action.~~ Prevent your opponent from gaining Evidence during this Action.**

### 2024-08-28

* B01061 **~~Sera Masumi~~ Masumi Sera**
* B02063 **~~Hideyoshi Haneda~~ Shukichi Haneda**
* B02064 **~~Hideyoshi Haneda~~ Shukichi Haneda**

### 2024-07-23

* D04010 "Jodie Starling" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**
* D04011 "Jodie Starling" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**
* D04012 "James Black" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**
* D04013 "Andre Camel" – Wrong type: **~~CIA~~ FBI**

### 2024-06-19

* The wording "the Turn" is clarified and now says "this Turn", which some cards already did. Affected cards below.
  * D01003 "Conan Edogawa"
  * D01006 "Ran Mori"
  * D01008 "Hiroshi Agasa"
  * D02013 "Shizuka Hattori"
  * D04005 "Masumi Sera"
  * B01007 "Ran Mori"
  * B01012 "Professor Agasa"
  * B01015 "Mitsuhiko Tsuburaya"
  * B01027 "Kazuha Toyama"
  * B01032 "Heiji Hattori"
  * B01068 "Shuichi Akai"
  * B01070 "Andre Camel"
  * B01077 "Shuichi…Akai!?"
  * B01094 "A detective should be a detective"
* B01058 "\*step*" - Effect: During the Turn, the next time your opponent's Evidence is removed, choose up to 1 **Sleeping** Character and Stun it

### 2024-06-10

* B01009 "Shinichi Kudo" - Effect: "If there are a total of 6 **or more** Characters on both players fields"
* D02014 "Amulet" - Effect: "reveal up to 1 **~~Blue~~ Green** Character"
* D05002 "Rei Furuya" - Missing types: Police, Public Security Bureau
